Deception Jamming Deception jamming is a satellite navigation jamming technology. The deception jamming source generates the deception signal similar to the real satellite navigation signal in the signal system and spectrum structure, but with a power slightly higher than the real signal, or else it repeats the real satellite navigation signal in space. Through the deception algorithm, the receiver mistakes the deception signal for the real satellite navigation signal for acquisition, tracking, and positioning solution, which ultimately

results in the receiver outputting the wrong time and space information [48]. The main features of deception jamming include good anti-jamming performance, high concealment, and being difficult to be detected by the receiver. It can accurately control the preset wrong space–time information output by the receiver. However, the jamming technology involved in deception jamming is relatively complex, and the jamming range is relatively narrow, i.e., generally only for specific users. 3.1. Classification of Deception Jamming There are many types of deception jamming, which can be classified according to the generation mode, implementation stage, and implementation difficulty of deception jamming. 3.1.1. Generation Mode of Deception Jamming Deception jamming can be divided into generated deception jamming and repeater deception jamming according to the generation mode. 1. Generated deception jamming The generated deception jamming mainly refers to the jamming method that generates and independently transmits the deception signal with the same structure as the real navigation signal according to the disclosed civil satellite navigation signal structure simulation. Gradually, it replaces the real signal into the tracking loop by virtue of the signal control strategy and power advantage; then, it controls the tracking loop to achieve the purpose of deception [49]. The generated deception jamming can control various parameters independently, with high flexibility and strong concealment. However, the generated deception jamming needs to obtain the structure of the navigation signal in advance, and the structure of the military navigation signal is unknown and difficult to crack. Therefore, it is impossible to implement generated deception jamming against military code signals, and the scope of use has certain limitations. The key to affecting the effect of generated deception jamming is the quality of deception signal generation. Only by keeping the same signal parameters and signal synchronization with the real satellite signal can the satellite navigation receivers receive the deception signal and determine it as the real satellite navigation signal, implementing the deception. Signal synchronization mainly refers to the estimation of the signal power, code phase, doppler frequency shift, and other parameters of the real signal received by the target receiver to make the deception signal align with the parameters of the real signal when reaching the target receiver. Signal synchronization is the basis of generated deception jamming [50,51]. He et al. [52] discussed the ranging error and ionospheric delay and their impact on signal synchronization, the influence of ranging error and ionospheric delay on signal synchronization, and the ranging accuracy required to achieve signal synchronization. In the literature [53], the calculation methods of the important parameters required by the generated deception jamming, such as the signal transmission power, doppler frequency, and code phase, were given in the synchronous and asynchronous phase of the signal. 2 Repeater deception jamming Repeater deception jamming mainly refers to the jamming method that adds a certain time delay on the basis of receiving the real satellite navigation signal and repeats the signal through power adjustment to make the satellite navigation receiver receive the repeater signal, thus implementing deception [54,55]. Repeater deception jamming is easy to operate and does not need to obtain the satellite navigation signal structure in order to jam the military code. However, repeater deception jamming is easily recognized by the receiver as multipath jamming and processed; hence, the success of deception is not high. If repeater deception jamming directly repeats the received satellite signal to the target receiver without considering the actual position and speed of the target receiver, it leads to a large deviation between the deception position Machines 2023, 11, 768 14 of 29 and the target position and thus to deception failure [56]. Therefore, one of the key steps of repeater deception jamming is to separate and purify the received signal, combine the position and speed information of the target receiver, and calculate and control the repeater delay. By analyzing the working principle of repeater deception jamming, Zhen et al. [57] proposed a method by which to calculate the channel delay and determine the maximum range of forward delay. In addition, repeater delay control is generally achieved through the reasonable layout of single-station or multi-station repeater deception jamming sources. The generated deception jamming and repeater deception jamming are summarized in Table 3. Table 3. Comparison of deception methods with different signal generation modes. Deception Type Advantage Disadvantage Scope of Applications Generated deception Jamming [50–53] High flexibility and controllable parameters Unable to deceive military code signal Civilian signal deception Repeater deception Jamming [56,57] Can deceive military code signals Low success rate of deception Military signal deception

3.1.2. Implementation Stage of Deception Jamming Satellite navigation signal processing mainly includes signal down-conversion, signal acquisition, and signal tracking. Generally, the implementation phase of deception jamming is usually during the phase of signal acquisition and signal tracking. 1. Signal acquisition stage In the actual deception scenario, the method of suppression jamming is usually used first to force the satellite navigation receiver to lose the lock state. In the process of reacquisition, the deception signal with higher power can generate a higher power correlation peak in the two-dimensional search space composed of doppler frequency and code phase and is locked into the acquisition and tracking state by the receiver [58–60]. However, due to the existence of high-power deception signals, the noise base of the receiver will rise, and the real satellite navigation signals will be interfered with or even submerged in the deception signals [61]. The obvious change of receiver environment caused by the high-power deception signal also has the possibility of being detected by the receiver

Therefore, the correlated interference generated by the deception signal will seriously affect the noise base estimation. The power control and deception strategy of the deception signal are crucial to the deception effect of the receiver in the acquisition stage. Some scholars have conducted research on the power control problem when deception jamming sources deceive receivers at the acquisition stage. Pang et al. [63] pointed out that when the receiver is in the reacquisition stage, the power of the deception signal only needs to be greater than the power of the real satellite signal to be captured by the receiver and implement deception. When the receiver is in the acquisition phase, it is necessary to increase the power of the deception signal to force the receiver without anti-deception technology to capture and track it. Wang et al. [64] compared and analyzed the deception effects of direct intrusion and suppression jamming assistance on the receiver acquisition and tracking loop. The simulation results showed that the suppression jamming assistance method was superior to the direct intrusion method. The direct intrusion method can only make the receiver locate incorrectly, while the suppression jamming assistance method can deceive the receiver to the predetermined position. According to the acquisition principle of the satellite navigation receiver, Liu et al. [65] deduced the acquisition probability of repeater deception jamming. Through simulation analysis, it is pointed out that the transmitting gain of the deception jamming signal only needs to be 7–10 dB, and the receiver can achieve effective acquisition of the deception signal. Tippenhauer et al. [66] pointed out that when the power of the deception signal is more than 2 dB higher than the real signal, the receiver can always lock on the deception signal without any offset. Ma et al. [67] theoretically calculated the relationship curve between the probability of the receiver capturing the deception jamming signal and the jamming signal ratio. When the jamming-to-signal ratio is greater than 5 dB, it can basically ensure that the receiver captures the deception signal in the acquisition phase. After successfully deceiving a receiver in the acquisition stage, subsequent deception strategies also affect the deception effect. Hu et al. [68] conducted the simulation experiment of deception jamming power control. The simulation results showed that in order to ensure the continuous traction of the deception signal on the receiver acquisition loop, the noise base and the maximum signal-to-noise ratio of the deception signal could be limited to 3 dB and 22 dB by adjusting the deception power in real-time. Sheng et al. [53] pointed out that when the deception signal is captured by the receiver through the power advantage, the code rate should be gradually increased so that the phase of the deception signal number is more than two chips from the phase of the real signal number to ensure that the receiver can track the deception signal stably. At the same time, using high power deception signals to force the receiver in the tracking state to lose lock, and then implementing deception is also a deception method. Pang et al. [63,69] pointed out that when the delay time of the repeater deception jamming is greater than one chip of the real signal, there is almost no mutual jamming between the deception signal and the real signal, and the deception jamming effect is basically equivalent to the broadband jamming of the suppression jamming. Lv et al. [70] analyzed the influence of the repeater deception jamming ratio on the tracking status of the receiver. The results showed that when the jamming signal ratio reached 25 dB, the deception signal Machines 2023, 11, 768 16 of 29 destroyed the tracking state of the receiver and forced the receiver to reacquire the tracking deception signal in the signal tracking stage. In addition, Andrew et al. [71] pointed out that if the deception intention is not concealed, as long as the power of the deception interference source reaches and exceeds the receiver acquisition detection threshold, the deception jamming source can successfully control the receiver’s acquisition and tracking loop, but this method will inevitably trigger the receiver’s deception detection measures. Through theoretical derivation of the deception mechanism of the deception signal, Lv et al. [70] analyzed the impact of deception jamming on the receiver’s acquisition performance and pointed out that when the deception signal and the real satellite signal differ by 1.5 chips, there will be two correlation peaks that will be detected by the receiver. Therefore, the deception signal should also avoid being detected by the anti-deception algorithm when attacking the receiver in the acquisition state. To sum up, it is a simple and effective deception method to implement suppression jamming or high-power deception jamming on the target receiver without considering deception detection processing, forcing the receiver to lose lock and enter the reacquisition state. However, currently, receivers are gradually deploying deception detection devices, and deception power control and deception strategies under deception detection conditions will be the focus of the receiver during the deception signal acquisition stage. 2 Signal tracking stage Using a high-power deception signal to force the receiver into the tracking state also has the problem that the detected signal is abnormal and leads to deception failure. Therefore, the deception jamming on the receiver in the tracking stage is more covert, but the technical requirements are also higher [72,73]. Usually, traction deception technology is used [74]. On the basis of the similar power of the deception signal and the real signal, researchers have adjusted the phase of the deception signal number and realized the traction of the tracking loop by sliding relative to the phase of the real satellite navigation signal number so as to avoid the lock loss of the receiver caused by the high-power signal, thus realizing their covert deception [75–77]. The schematic diagram of the traction jamming implementation process is shown in Figure

Traction signal deception methods are mainly divided into two categories: the first method requires maintaining a proportional relationship between the doppler frequency of the deception signal and the doppler frequency of the spread spectrum code; the second method requires the deception signal to maintain the carrier frequency of the deception signal equal to the carrier frequency of the real signal while improving the code rate. The two methods each have advantages and disadvantages.The first method may be detected as abnormal due to changes in the carrier frequency difference between

the real signal and the deception signal. As to the second method, although the carrier frequency of the deception signal in the second method is consistent with the carrier frequency of the real signal, the inconsistency between the doppler frequency of the deception signal and the doppler frequency of the spread spectrum code also poses a risk of being detected [78]. Todd et al. [49] developed the first truly GNSS progressive traction deception jamming source. Daniel et al. [58] pointed out that in order to achieve effective deception, the deception signal will split the true code phase of the receiver in the tracking stage by more than two chips. Huang et al. [79] established a receiver–tracking model and quantitatively analyzed the influence of deception signal power on the traction effect of the target receivertracking loop. The deception signal power only needs to be 4 dB higher than the real signal power, which can destroy the typical receiver’s tracking of the real signal in 50 min and make it track the deception signal instead. Kerns et al. [71] pointed out that when implementing covert deception on receivers in tracking status, the deception signal should not be too high and should be strictly controlled, and the maximum Doppler frequency shift should also be controlled within 50 Hz to ensure that the deception signal frequency is consistent with the true signal frequency as much as possible. Ma et al. [67] pointed out that when the receiver is in a stable tracking state, the local code phase is precisely synchronized with the real signal phase. Only when the difference between the deception signal and the local signal is less than one code phase, can the deception signal use the power advantage to pull the receiver to bias and successfully implement deception. He et al. [52] analyzed and discussed the power conditions of deception jamming and pointed out that in order to avoid being detected by the detection algorithm, the increased rate of deception jamming power should not be too large. When the correlation peak of the deception signal is slightly greater than the correlation peak of the real signal, the real signal can be stripped of the receiver–tracking loop. In order to enable the deception signal to directly peel off the real signal and enter the receivertracking loop, Sheng et al. [53] proposed an asynchronous attack strategy: first, generate a high-power lag correlation peak; then, speed up the deception signal number rate, so that the deception signal number phase is aligned with the real signal code phase and ahead of the real signal number phase. The target receiver will gradually peel off the real signal and continue to track the deception signal. Li et al. [80] built a Beidou navigation receiver deception jamming test platform to test the influence of deception jamming under different power conditions on the Beidou navigation receiver in a stable tracking state. The test results showed that when the deception signal power reached 25 dB, a certain type of Beidou navigation receiver loss its lock and captured the deception signal again. To sum up, whether in the signal acquisition stage or the signal tracking stage, the control strategy of the deception signal is one of the key factors affecting the deception efficiency. For receivers at different stages, different deception power control methods need to be used to implement deception. However, the current research on deception power control mostly stays in the stage of theoretical model establishment and actual measurement simulation for some typical receivers; deceptive signal power control methods have not yet formed a systematic experimental and theoretical control strategy. Secondly, the experimental environment and theoretical assumptions of deception jamming are too idealistic, and the detection methods for deception jamming are endless. Using the deception signal power control strategy obtained under the idealistic conditions and the deception signal power for some typical receivers to cheat, it is likely to lead to deception failure. Finally, although traction deception is currently a research hotspot in the field of satellite navigation deception and jamming, the limitations of knowing the accurate code information, frequency information, and location information of the target receiver still limit the scope of use of this traction jamming. The comparison of deception methods with different implementation stages are summarized in Table 4. Machines 2023, 11, 768 18 of 29 Table 4. The comparison of deception methods with different implementation stages. Implementation Stage Advantage Disadvantage Research Focus Signal acquisition stage Implementation is relatively simple Relatively poor concealment The power control [63–67] The deception strategy [53,63,68–71] Signal tracking stage Relatively better concealment Implementation is relatively difficulty The traction deception technology
